PrestaShop on Docker guide (#1661)
PrestaShop/docs: basics/installation/install-with-docker.md

---
title: Installing PrestaShop with Docker
menuTitle: Installation with Docker
weight: 15
---

# Installing PrestaShop with Docker

PrestaShop is available through Docker for testing/experimenting, and developping modules or themes. 

Docker is an open-source platform that enables developers to package applications and their dependencies into lightweight, portable containers, providing an efficient and consistent way to build, ship, and run software across different environments.

- [Docker's website](https://www.docker.com/)
- [PrestaShop's Docker Github repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker)
- [PrestaShop's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop/)

## Install Docker

> Docker is available on each major operating system. [You will need to install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/).

Reviewer: Personnellement, j'aurais plus mis ce lien télécharger Docker

https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/

{{% notice note %}}

> When using Windows (10+), it can be a good solution to [install WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/wsl/install), and then install Docker on the WSL distribution. You will benefit of all the advantages of a Linux OS when using Shell / CLI.

Reviewer 2: I think you can even advice poeple to install WSL 2 on windows. WSL will work but the second version is much more suitable for docker.

{{% /notice %}}

### Install docker-compose

Docker Compose is a tool that simplifies the management of multi-container Docker applications by allowing developers to define and configure complex application stacks using a declarative YAML file, enabling easy orchestration, scaling, and networking of containers with a single command.

Docker-compose is included in versions of Docker Desktop (Windows, Mac). If you are using Docker on Linux, [you need to install docker-compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). 

## Run PrestaShop on Docker

PrestaShop runs on a *AMP stack (Apache - Mysql - PHP). Two containers are required to run PrestaShop: 

- a Mysql container (5.7 version)
- a PrestaShop container (packaging PHP, PHP modules, PrestaShop codebase and dependencies, and Apache)

### Create a Docker network

Those two containers need to be able to communicate each other. 

```

> $ docker network create prestashop-net

Reviewer 3: Idéalement c'est un network qui peut être défini comme interne, et donc vivre avec la vie des docker compose up / down.
Je dis "idéalement" parce que ça rend la vie plus simple pour quelqu'un qui souhaiterait utiliser ce projet, (mais oui, ça fonctionne avec les networks externes docker).

```

### Start a Mysql 5.7 container

Then, start a Mysql container:

- with image `mysql:5.7`, 
- with network `prestashop-net`, 
- on exposed `port` 3307, 
- with container name `some-mysql`, 
- and `root password` 'admin'. 

```

> $ docker run -ti --name some-mysql --network prestashop-net -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=admin -p 3307:3306 -d mysql:5.7

Reviewer 3: Si on expose le port du container sur le host, alors n'importe quel autre container aura accès à ce port moyennant l'utilisation de l'IP de routage.
Je m'avance peut être, mais si tu enlèves `--network prestashop-net` et que tu précises au container PrestaShop que sa bdd se trouve sur `host.docker.internal:3306` et tu auras un fonctionnement adéquat.

```

### Start the PrestaShop container

Then, start the PrestaShop container: 

- with `name` `some-prestashop`, 
- with `network` `prestashop-net`,
- with environment variable `DB_SERVER` set to `some-mysql`,
- on exposed `port` `8080`
- with `image` `prestashop/prestashop:latest`

```
$ docker run -ti --name some-prestashop --network prestashop-net -e DB_SERVER=some-mysql -p 8080:80 -d prestashop/prestashop:latest
```

### Install PrestaShop database, and begin testing

Then, access `http://localhost:8080` on your browser to begin testing PrestaShop. 
You will land on the installer of PrestaShop. 

When you will be asked for Mysql user, use `root`.
When asked for Mysql password, use `admin`.

> ### Advanced usages

Reviewer: A voir mais il peut être pas mal d'ajouter un lien vers le hub docker pour voir les différents tags & archi
https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop

#### Use a specific PrestaShop version

You can use a specific PrestaShop version by changing the image tag: 

- Use latest image: `prestashop/prestashop:latest`
- Use 1.7: `prestashop/prestashop:latest`
- Use 1.7.8: `prestashop/prestashop:1.7.8`

#### Use a specific PHP version

You can also specify the version of PHP to use:

- Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1`
- Use 8.0 image, with PHP 7.4: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0-7.4`

#### Use Apache or FPM

You can also specify to use Apache or FPM by appending `-apache` or `-fpm` to the image. 

- Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1, on apache: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1-apache`
- Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1, on FPM: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1-fpm`

## Use docker-compose to manage your stack

Docker-compose will help starting and stopping your PrestaShop stack, persist your database with a volume, persist your installation, and will allow you to mount local modules and/or themes in PrestaShop. 

> ### Create the docker-compose.yml manifest

Reviewer 3: À mon avis cette section devrait apparaître avant la partie qui concerne les `docker run`. C'est plus simple d'utiliser un docker compose, et les `docker run` pourraient figurer dans la partie "avanced users". C'est mon avis subjectif !

Reviewer: Je confirme, la majorité des développeurs vont préférer un `docker compose` à du `docker run`
On peut même aller plus loin comme Bitnami avec un TL;DR, en mode télécharge le `docker-compose.yml` puis un up et cela fonctionnera

Exemple: https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/prestashop#:~:text=affiliation%20or%20endorsement.-,TL%3BDR,-curl%20%2DsSL%20https

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
    mysql:
        container_name: some-mysql
        image: mysql:5.7

>         restart: always

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        restart: unless-stopped
```

        environment:
             MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
             MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
        networks:
        - prestashop_network
    prestashop:
        container_name: prestashop
        image: prestashop/prestashop:latest
        restart: always
        depends_on:
        - mysql
        ports:
        - 8080:80
        environment:
            DB_SERVER: some-mysql
            DB_NAME: prestashop
            DB_USER: root
            DB_PASSWD: admin
            PS_FOLDER_ADMIN: admin4577
            PS_FOLDER_INSTALL: install4577
        networks:

>         - prestashop_network

Reviewer: Je crois qu'il y a un soucis d'indentation pour chaque tirets 
Exemple:
```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  # https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: always
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
      MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
    networks:
      - prestashop_network

  # https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    image: prestashop/prestashop:latest
    restart: always
    depends_on:
      - mysql
    ports:
      - "8080:80"
    environment:
      DB_SERVER: some-mysql
      DB_NAME: prestashop
      DB_USER: root
      DB_PASSWD: admin
      PS_FOLDER_ADMIN: admin4577
      PS_FOLDER_INSTALL: install4577
    networks:
      - prestashop_network

networks:
  prestashop_network:
```

> networks:

Reviewer 3: ici il n'est pas external, donc good, c'est plus simple (il sera crée au up et supprimé au down)

    prestashop_network:
```

{{% notice info %}}
When using a M1-chip Mac, you may add: `platform: linux/x86_64` on each container declaration. 
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice note %}}
It is a grood practice to change install/ and admin/ directory names. In this example, we set them to `admin4577` and `install4577`. When installing PrestaShop with Docker for the first time, you need to access `https://localhost:8080/install4577`. 
{{% /notice %}}

In the directory where the docker-compose.yml file is located, run: 

- Start the stack: 

```
docker-compose up
```

- Start the stack, in background: 

```
docker-compose up -d
```

- Stop a background stack: 

```

> docker-compose down

Reviewer: Aujourd'hui on utilise `docker compose` au lieu de `docker-compose`. Compose est devenu un plugin de Docker

```

### Bind a volume for Mysql persisting

If you don't bind a volume to the Mysql container, the database content will not be persisted when stopping / restarting the stack.

To avoid this, add a `volume` to your Mysql container: 

```yml
...
    mysql:
        container_name: some-mysql
        volumes:

>         - dbdata:/var/lib/mysql

Reviewer 3: indentation, il manque une tabulation avant `- dbdata`

    prestashop:
        container_name: prestashop
        ...
        volumes:
          - type: bind
            source: ./modules/testModule # local path to the module
            target: /var/www/html/modules/testModule # path to be mounted in the container
...
```

And that's it: your module is available on the PrestaShop Docker instance, and changes made in the local directory of the module are automatically synchronized on the PrestaShop Docker instance. 

### Bind a local theme to your manifest

Lets consider we have a `myTheme` PrestaShop Theme. 

Create a `themes/` directory, and drop in your `myTheme` directory.

Create a bind mount in your docker-compose.yml:

```yaml
...
    prestashop:
        container_name: prestashop
        ...
        volumes:
          - type: bind
            source: ./themes/myTheme # local path to the module
            target: /var/www/html/themes/myTheme # path to be mounted in the container
...
```

And that's it: your theme is available on the PrestaShop Docker instance, and changes made in the local directory of the theme are automatically synchronized on the PrestaShop Docker instance. 

### Complete docker-compose.yml for reference

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Petite indentation 

```yaml
version: '3'

services:
  # https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: unless-stopped
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
      MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
    volumes:
      - dbdata:/var/lib/mysql

  # https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    image: prestashop/prestashop:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    depends_on:
      - mysql
    ports:
      - "8080:80"
    environment:
      DB_SERVER: some-mysql
      DB_NAME: prestashop
      DB_USER: root
      DB_PASSWD: admin
      PS_FOLDER_ADMIN: admin4577
      PS_FOLDER_INSTALL: install4577
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: ./modules/testModule # local path to the module
        target: /var/www/html/modules/testModule # path to be mounted in the container
      - type: bind
        source: ./themes/myTheme # local path to the theme
        target: /var/www/html/themes/myTheme # path to be mounted in the container
      - psdata:/var/www/html

networks:
  prestashop_network:

volumes:
  psdata:
  dbdata:
```

| PS_ERASE_DB | Drop the mysql database. All previous mysql data will be lost | `0` |
| PS_INSTALL_DB | Create the mysql database. | `0` |
| PS_DOMAIN | When installing automatically your shop, you can tell the shop how it will be reached. For advanced users only | |
| PS_LANGUAGE | Change the default language installed with PrestaShop | `en` |
| PS_COUNTRY | Change the default country installed with PrestaShop | `GB` |
| PS_ALL_LANGUAGES | Install all the existing languages for the current version. | `0` |
| PS_FOLDER_ADMIN | Change the name of the admin folder | `admin` |
| PS_FOLDER_INSTALL | Change the name of the install folder | `install` |
| PS_ENABLE_SSL | Enable SSL at PrestaShop installation. | `0` |
| ADMIN_MAIL | Override default admin email | `demo@prestashop.com` |
| ADMIN_PASSWD | Override default admin password | `prestashop_demo` |

If your IP / port (or domain) change between two executions of your container, you will need to modify this option:

| Environment variable  | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|

> | PS_HANDLE_DYNAMIC_DOMAIN | Add specific configuration to handle dynamic domain | `0` |

Reviewer 3: Pour être exhaustif on pourrait aussi ajouter que certaines fonctionnalités de l'écosystème PrestaShopCorp nécessitent un accès sur internet. C'est le cas par exemple de PS Accounts, qui sans présence sur le web de la boutique, sera dans l'incapacité d'appairer celle ci à ses systèmes. Ce qui bloque l'usage de ps_billing, ps_eventbus, ps_metrics, pdxmarketingwithgoogle, ps_facebook et d'autres...

Ici une proposition de solution à base de ngrok (mais il y en a d'autres, avec localtunnel par exemple) https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/docker-compose-kickstarter

---
title: Installing PrestaShop with Docker
menuTitle: Installation with Docker
weight: 15
---

# Installing PrestaShop with Docker

PrestaShop is available through Docker for testing/experimenting, and developping modules or themes. 

Docker is an open-source platform that enables developers to package applications and their dependencies into lightweight, portable containers, providing an efficient and consistent way to build, ship, and run software across different environments.

- [Docker's website](https://www.docker.com/)
- [PrestaShop's Docker Github repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker)
- [PrestaShop's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop/)

The easiest way to begin with PrestaShop on Docker is to run your stack with Docker compose. It will ease container management, networks, volume persistence, ...

## Install Docker

> Docker is available on each major operating system. [You will need to install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

Reviewer 4: I think the link https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ is more interesting. Docker engine is enough to run prestashop

Note: WSL2 should be a better option when running Docker.
{{% /notice %}}

### Install docker compose

Docker Compose is a tool that simplifies the management of multi-container Docker applications by allowing developers to define and configure complex application stacks using a declarative YAML file, enabling easy orchestration, scaling, and networking of containers with a single command.

docker compose is included in versions of Docker Desktop (Windows, Mac). If you are using Docker on Linux, [you need to install docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). 

## Use docker compose to manage your stack

docker compose will help starting and stopping your PrestaShop stack, persist your database with a volume, persist your installation, and will allow you to mount local modules and/or themes in PrestaShop. 

### Create the docker compose.yml manifest

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    image: mysql:5.7

>     restart: always

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    restart: unless-stopped
```

To avoid restarting after an explicit stop

    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
      MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    image: prestashop/prestashop:latest

>     restart: always

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    restart: unless-stopped
```
To avoid restarting after an explicit stop

---
title: Installing PrestaShop with Docker
menuTitle: Installation with Docker
weight: 15
---

# Installing PrestaShop with Docker

> PrestaShop is available through Docker for testing/experimenting, and developping modules or themes. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
PrestaShop is available through Docker for testing/experimenting and developing modules or themes. 
```

> Docker is an open-source platform that enables developers to package applications and their dependencies into lightweight, portable containers, providing an efficient and consistent way to build, ship, and run software across different environments.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Docker is an open-source platform that enables developers to package applications and their dependencies into lightweight, portable containers. It provides an efficient and consistent way to build, ship, and run software across different environments.
```

- [Docker's website](https://www.docker.com/)
- [PrestaShop's Docker Github repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker)
- [PrestaShop's Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop/)

> The easiest way to begin with PrestaShop on Docker is to run your stack with Docker compose. It will ease container management, networks, volume persistence, ...

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The easiest way to begin with PrestaShop on Docker is to run your stack with Docker Compose. It will ease container management, networks, and volume persistence.
```

## Install Docker

Docker is available on each major operating system. [You will need to install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/).

{{% notice note %}}

> When using Windows (10+), it can be a good solution to [install WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/wsl/install), and then install Docker on the WSL distribution. You will benefit of all the advantages of a Linux OS when using Shell / CLI.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When using Windows (10+), it can be a good solution to [install WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/wsl/install), and then install Docker on the WSL distribution. You will benefit from all the advantages of a Linux OS when using Shell / CLI.
```

Note: WSL2 should be a better option when running Docker.
{{% /notice %}}

### Install docker compose

Docker Compose is a tool that simplifies the management of multi-container Docker applications by allowing developers to define and configure complex application stacks using a declarative YAML file, enabling easy orchestration, scaling, and networking of containers with a single command.

> docker compose is included in versions of Docker Desktop (Windows, Mac). If you are using Docker on Linux, [you need to install docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Docker Compose is included in versions of Docker Desktop (Windows, Mac). If you are using Docker on Linux, [you must install docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/). 
```

> ## Use docker compose to manage your stack

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Use Docker Compose to manage your stack
```

> docker compose will help starting and stopping your PrestaShop stack, persist your database with a volume, persist your installation, and will allow you to mount local modules and/or themes in PrestaShop. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Docker Compose will help start and stop your PrestaShop stack, persist your database with a volume, persist your installation, and will allow you to mount local modules and/or themes in PrestaShop. 
```

> ### Create the docker compose.yml manifest

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Create the docker-compose.yml manifest
```

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: unless-stopped
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
      MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop

>     image: prestashop/prestashop:latest

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    image: prestashop/prestashop:latest # Latest stable version of the PrestaShop, to see all available images go to ...
```

    restart: unless-stopped
    depends_on:
      - mysql
    ports:
      - 8080:80
    environment:
      DB_SERVER: some-mysql
      DB_NAME: prestashop
      DB_USER: root
      DB_PASSWD: admin
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
networks:
    prestashop_network:
```

{{% notice info %}}

> When using a M1-chip Mac, you may add: `platform: linux/x86_64` on each container declaration. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When using an M1-chip Mac, you may need to add: `platform: linux/x86_64` on each container declaration. 
```

{{% /notice %}}

### Automatically install PrestaShop with test data

{{% notice note %}}
This is the easiest and quickest way to start and test PrestaShop with Docker.
{{% /notice %}}

> You can automatically install PrestaShop, and add test data, without having to use the installation assistant when creating your Docker compose stack. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can automatically install PrestaShop and add test data without having to use the installation assistant when creating your Docker Compose stack. 
```

To achieve this, you need to set those environment variables in your PrestaShop container declaration in your  `docker-compose.yml` file:

```yaml

> PS_DEMO_MODE: 1

Reviewer 5: Just a question, are you sure it is necessary for the example data to install? Because there's something like the demo mode in PrestaShop software which is different.

Author: mmm let me check 👍

PS_INSTALL_AUTO: 1
PS_DOMAIN: localhost:8080
```

> Then run `docker compose up` in your terminal, wait a few minutes, and you will be able to access a PrestaShop instance on `http://localhost:8080` with demo products, and `http://localhost:8080/admin` for the administration side.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Then run `docker compose up` in your terminal, wait a few minutes, and you will be able to access a PrestaShop instance on `http://localhost:8080` with the front office containing the demo products and `http://localhost:8080/admin` for the back office.
```

> Complete docker compose manifest for reference:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Complete docker-compose.yml manifest for reference:
```

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: unless-stopped
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
      MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    image: prestashop/prestashop:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    depends_on:
      - mysql
    ports:
      - 8080:80
    environment:
      DB_SERVER: some-mysql
      DB_NAME: prestashop
      DB_USER: root
      DB_PASSWD: admin
      PS_DEMO_MODE: 1
      PS_INSTALL_AUTO: 1
      PS_DOMAIN: localhost:8080
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
networks:
    prestashop_network:
```

### Manually install PrestaShop with Installation Assistant, and begin testing

To manually install PrestaShop using the Installation Assistant, don't set the environment variables `PS_DEMO_MODE` and `PS_INSTALL_AUTO`.

> In the directory where the docker compose.yml file is located, run: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the directory where the docker compose.yml file is located, do the following: 
```

- Start the stack: 

```
docker compose up
```

> - Start the stack, in background: 

Reviewer 5: Shall we start the stack or start the stack in the background? What's the difference? Maybe it should be something like:
You can also start your stack in the background, if you do that then something something

```
docker compose up -d
```

Access `http://localhost:8080` on your browser to begin testing PrestaShop. 

You will land on the installer of PrestaShop. 

> - When you will be asked for MySQL server, type `some-mysql`, as declared in your yaml file.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- When asked for a MySQL server, type `some-mysql`, as declared in your yaml file.
```

- When asked for MySQL user, use `root`, as declared in your yaml file.
- When asked for MySQL password, use `admin`, as declared in your yaml file.

#### Installation assistant and admin URLs

{{% notice note %}}
It is a grood practice to change `install/` and `admin/` directory names. 

To achieve this, specify the two following environment variables in your PrestaShop container declaration:

```
PS_FOLDER_ADMIN: admin4577
PS_FOLDER_INSTALL: install4577
```

In this example, we set them to `admin4577` and `install4577`. When installing PrestaShop with Docker for the first time, you need to access `https://localhost:8080/install4577`.
{{% /notice %}}

{{% notice info %}}
If you did not change the `install/` or `admin/` directory names, after installation, you need to manually delete the install directory in your container, and change the admin directory name. 
To do this, please run: 

```
docker exec -i prestashop rm -rf install
docker exec -i prestashop mv admin admin_xxx
```

> Your admin is now located at `https://localhost:8080/admin_xxx`. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
After running these scripts, your back office will be at `https://localhost:8080/admin_xxx`. 
```

{{% /notice %}}

> ### Bind a volume for Mysql persisting

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Bind a volume for MySQL persisting
```

> If you don't bind a volume to the Mysql container, the database content will not be persisted when stopping / restarting the stack.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you don't bind a volume to the MySQL container, the database content will not be persisted when stopping/restarting the stack.
```

> To avoid this, add a `volume` to your Mysql container: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To avoid this, add a `volume` to your MySQL container: 
```

```yml
...
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    volumes:
      - dbdata:/var/lib/mysql
...
volumes:
  dbdata:
```

> ### Bind a volume for Installation persisting

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Bind a volume for installation persisting
```
I don't like the title. I understand that it is to persist entire instance of the PrestaShop, maybe the word "instance" fits better there?

If you don't bind a volume to the PrestaShop container, data will not be persisted when stopping / restarting the stack. PrestaShop will try to install itself at every restart of the stack.

To avoid this, add a `volume` to your PrestaShop container: 

```yml
...
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    ...
    volumes:
      - psdata:/var/www/html
...
volumes:
  psdata:
```

> ### Bind a local module to your manifest

Reviewer 5: Bind to the manifest or to the volume?

> Lets consider we have a `testModule` PrestaShop Module. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Let's consider we have a `test_module` PrestaShop Module. 
```

Let's use a valid module name 👍🏻

> Create a `modules/` directory, and drop in your `testModule` directory.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Create a `modules/` directory, and drop in your `test_module` directory.
```

> Create a bind mount in your docker compose.yml:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Create a bind mount in your docker-compose.yml:
```

it's `docker-compose.yml` right?

```yaml
...
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    ...
    volumes:
      - type: bind

>         source: ./modules/testModule # local path to the module

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        source: ./modules/test_module # local path to the module
```

>         target: /var/www/html/modules/testModule # path to be mounted in the container

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        target: /var/www/html/modules/test_module # path to be mounted in the container
```

...
```

> And that's it: your module is available on the PrestaShop Docker instance, and changes made in the local directory of the module are automatically synchronized on the PrestaShop Docker instance. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
And that's it: your module is available on the PrestaShop Docker instance, and changes made in the local directory of the module are automatically synchronized within a Docker container.
```

Does it make sense?

> ### Bind a local theme to your manifest

Reviewer 5: Again, we're binding to the manifest or to the volume?

> Lets consider we have a `myTheme` PrestaShop Theme. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Let's consider we have a `mytheme` PrestaShop Theme. 
```

> Create a `themes/` directory, and drop in your `myTheme` directory.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Create a `themes/` directory, and drop your `mytheme` directory there.
```

> Create a bind mount in your docker compose.yml:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Create a bind mount in your docker-compose.yml:
```

```yaml
...
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    ...
    volumes:
      - type: bind

>         source: ./themes/myTheme # local path to the module
>         target: /var/www/html/themes/myTheme # path to be mounted in the container

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        source: ./themes/mytheme # local path to the module
        target: /var/www/html/themes/mytheme # path to be mounted in the container
```

...
```

> And that's it: your theme is available on the PrestaShop Docker instance, and changes made in the local directory of the theme are automatically synchronized on the PrestaShop Docker instance. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
And that's it: your theme is available on the PrestaShop Docker instance, and changes made in the local directory of the theme are automatically synchronized within a Docker container.
```

> ### Complete docker compose.yml for reference

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Complete docker-compose.yml for reference
```

```yaml
version: '3'
services:
  mysql:
    container_name: some-mysql
    image: mysql:5.7
    restart: unless-stopped
    environment:
      MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD: admin
      MYSQL_DATABASE: prestashop
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
    volumes:
      - dbdata:/var/lib/mysql
  prestashop:
    container_name: prestashop
    image: prestashop/prestashop:latest
    restart: unless-stopped
    depends_on:
      - mysql
    ports:
      - 8080:80
    environment:
      DB_SERVER: some-mysql
      DB_NAME: prestashop
      DB_USER: root
      DB_PASSWD: admin
      PS_FOLDER_ADMIN: admin4577
      PS_FOLDER_INSTALL: install4577
    networks:
      - prestashop_network
    volumes:
      - type: bind
        source: ./modules/testModule # local path to the module
        target: /var/www/html/modules/testModule # path to be mounted in the container
      - type: bind
        source: ./themes/myTheme # local path to the theme
        target:  /var/www/html/themes/myTheme # path to be mounted in the container
      - psdata:/var/www/html
networks:
  prestashop_network:
volumes:
  psdata:
  dbdata:
```

### Add PHPMyAdmin to your stack

> In the docker compose.yml, add the following service declaration:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In the docker-compose.yml, add the following service declaration:
```

```yml
version: '3'
services:
...
    phpmyadmin:
      image: phpmyadmin/phpmyadmin
      container_name: phpmyadmin
      links:
        - some-mysql
      environment:
        PMA_HOST: some-mysql
        PMA_PORT: 3306
        PMA_ARBITRARY: 1
      restart: unless-stopped
      ports:
        - 8081:80
```

And access `http://localhost:8081` to access `phpMyAdmin`.

> ### Enter the container to get Symfony logs, execute commands, modify core files or core configuration

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Enter the container to execute commands and interact with all its files
```

> You may need to enter the container to parse logs, execute commands, modify core files, or core configuration. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Sometimes, you may need to enter the container to parse logs, execute commands, modify core files, or some of the environment configurations.
```

> You can enter in a shell of the container by running in your terminal: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To access the container's shell, simply execute the following command in your terminal:
```

```bash
docker exec -ti prestashop /bin/bash
```

You will land in the container, in the PrestaShop's directory (`/var/www/html`).

> From there, you can:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
From there, you can use commands like:
```

```bash
php bin/console prestashop:module enable xxx # enables the module xxx
tail -f var/logs/dev.log # tail in interactive mode the dev.log file

> # all commands you may need

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
# you can use all other commands you may need
```

```

> You may also directly execute commands in the container with `docker exec -i`: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can also execute commands directly in the container with `docker exec -i`: 
```

```bash
docker exec -i prestashop php bin/console list # will execute list command from Symfony's console 
```

> ## Run PrestaShop on Docker without Docker compose

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Run PrestaShop on Docker without Docker Compose
```

Reviewer 5: I miss the information when it is better to use which option :)

> PrestaShop runs on a *AMP stack (Apache - Mysql - PHP). Two containers are required to run PrestaShop: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
PrestaShop runs on an *AMP stack (Apache - MySQL - PHP). Two containers are required to run PrestaShop: 
```

> - a Mysql container (5.7 version)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- a MySQL container (5.7 version)
```

> - a PrestaShop container (packaging PHP, PHP modules, PrestaShop codebase and dependencies, and Apache)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- a PrestaShop container (packaging PHP, PHP modules and extensions, PrestaShop codebase and dependencies, and Apache)
```

Apache, if you choose an image with Apache, right?

### Create a Docker network

> Those two containers need to be able to communicate each other. 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Those two containers need to be able to communicate with each other. 
```

```
$ docker network create prestashop-net
```

{{% notice note %}}

> When using docker compose, the network lives and dies when starting/stopping the stack, automatically.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
When using Docker Compose, the network lives and dies when starting/stopping the stack automatically.
```

{{% /notice %}}

### Start a Mysql 5.7 container

> Then, start a Mysql container:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Start a MySQL 5.7 container

Then, start a MySQL container:
```

- and `root password` 'admin'. 

```
$ docker run -ti --name some-mysql --network prestashop-net -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=admin -d mysql:5.7
```

### Start the PrestaShop container

Then, start the PrestaShop container: 

- with `name` `some-prestashop`, 
- with `network` `prestashop-net`,
- on exposed `port` `8080`
- with `image` `prestashop/prestashop:latest`

```
$ docker run -ti --name some-prestashop --network prestashop-net -p 8080:80 -d prestashop/prestashop:latest
```

## Images, architectures and tags

All our images and tags are available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/prestashop/prestashop).

### Use a specific PrestaShop version

You can use a specific PrestaShop version by changing the image tag: 

- Use latest image: `prestashop/prestashop:latest`
- Use 1.7: `prestashop/prestashop:latest`
- Use 1.7.8: `prestashop/prestashop:1.7.8`

### Use a specific PHP version

You can also specify the version of PHP to use:

- Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1`
- Use 8.0 image, with PHP 7.4: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0-7.4`

### Use Apache or FPM

You can also specify to use Apache or FPM by appending `-apache` or `-fpm` to the image. 

> - Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1, on apache: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1-apache`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1, on Apache: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1-apache`
```

> - Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1, on FPM: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1-fpm`

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Use 8.0.4 image, with PHP 8.1, on Apache with PHP-FPM: `prestashop/prestashop:8.0.4-8.1-fpm`
```

right?

| PS_ERASE_DB | Drop the mysql database. All previous mysql data will be lost | `0` |
| PS_INSTALL_DB | Create the mysql database. | `0` |
| PS_DOMAIN | When installing automatically your shop, you can tell the shop how it will be reached. For advanced users only | |
| PS_LANGUAGE | Change the default language installed with PrestaShop | `en` |
| PS_COUNTRY | Change the default country installed with PrestaShop | `GB` |
| PS_ALL_LANGUAGES | Install all the existing languages for the current version. | `0` |
| PS_FOLDER_ADMIN | Change the name of the admin folder | `admin` |
| PS_FOLDER_INSTALL | Change the name of the install folder | `install` |
| PS_ENABLE_SSL | Enable SSL at PrestaShop installation. | `0` |
| ADMIN_MAIL | Override default admin email | `demo@prestashop.com` |
| ADMIN_PASSWD | Override default admin password | `prestashop_demo` |

If your IP / port (or domain) change between two executions of your container, you will need to modify this option:

| Environment variable  | Description | Default value |
|---|---|---|
| PS_HANDLE_DYNAMIC_DOMAIN | Add specific configuration to handle dynamic domain | `0` |

## Troubleshooting 

> If you encounter issues using PrestaShop with Docker, feel free to read our troubleshooting tips on [PrestaShop's Docker Github repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker), or [open an issue](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker/issues) if the probleme is not already addressed.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If you encounter issues using PrestaShop with Docker, feel free to read our troubleshooting tips on [PrestaShop's Docker Github repository](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker) or [open an issue](https://github.com/PrestaShop/docker/issues) if the problem is not already addressed.
```

### Allow your instance to be accessible through internet

> Some native PrestaShop modules needs to be accessible on the internet to work properly (`ps_accounts`, `ps_billing`, `ps_eventbus`, `ps_metrics`, ...). 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Some native PrestaShop modules must be accessible online to work correctly (`ps_accounts`, `ps_billing`, `ps_eventbus`, `ps_metrics`, ...). 
```

> To make your instance accessible through internet, you can use solutions such as `ngrok`, [as shown here](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/docker compose-kickstarter).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To make your instance accessible through the Internet, you can use solutions such as `ngrok`, [as shown here](https://github.com/PrestaShopCorp/docker-compose-kickstarter).
```
